Desktop e-book: Chapter 3 (#17301)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/modernize-desktop/migrating-modern-desktop-applications.md

use with .NET Core. If your code relies on some of these technologies, consider
the alternative approaches outlined below.

The Windows Compatibility Pack provides access to APIs that were previously
available only for .NET Framework. It can be used from both .NET Core as well as
.NET Standard.

For more information on API compatibility, the CoreFX team maintains a list of
behavioral changes/compat breaks and deprecated/legacy APIs at GitHub.
<https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/wiki/ApiCompat>)

### AppDomains

Application domains (AppDomains) isolate apps from one another. AppDomains
require runtime support and are expensive. Creating additional
app domains is not supported. For code isolation, we recommend separate
processes or using containers as an alternative. For the dynamic loading of
assemblies, we recommend the new AssemblyLoadContext class.

To make code migration from .NET Framework easier, .NET Core exposes some of
the AppDomain API surface. Some of the APIs function normally (for
example, AppDomain.UnhandledException), some members do nothing (for
example, SetCachePath), and some of them throw

> PlatformNotSupportedException (for example, CreateDomain).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, <xref:System.AppDomain.UnhandledException?displayProperty=nameWithType>), some members do nothing (for
example, <xref:System.AppDomain.SetCachePath%2A>), and some of them throw
<xref:System.PlatformNotSupportedException> (for example, <xref:System.AppDomain.CreateDomain%2A>).
```

### Remoting

.NET Remoting was used for cross-AppDomain communication, which is no longer
supported. Also, Remoting requires runtime support, which is expensive to

> maintain. For these reasons, .NET Remoting is not supported on .NET Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
maintain. For these reasons, .NET Remoting isn't supported on .NET Core.
```

For communication across processes, you should consider inter-process
communication (IPC) mechanisms as an alternative to Remoting, such as
the System.IO.Pipes or the MemoryMappedFile class.

Across machines, use a network-based solution as an alternative. Preferably, use
a low-overhead plain text protocol, such as HTTP. The Kestrel web server, the
web server used by ASP.NET Core, is an option here.

> ### Code Access Security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the <xref:System.IO.Pipes?displayProperty=nameWithType> or the <xref:System.IO.MemoryMappedFiles.MemoryMappedFile> class.

Across machines, use a network-based solution as an alternative. Preferably, use
a low-overhead plaintext protocol, such as HTTP. The Kestrel web server, the
web server used by ASP.NET Core, is an option here.

### Code Access Security (CAS)
```

Sandboxing, which relies on the runtime or the framework to constrain which
resources a managed application or library uses or runs is not supported on .NET
Core.

Use security boundaries provided by the operating system, such as
virtualization, containers, or user accounts for running processes with the
minimum set of privileges.

### Security Transparency

> Similar to CAS (Code Access Security), Security Transparency separates sandboxed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resources a managed application or library uses or runs isn't supported on .NET
Core.

Use security boundaries provided by the operating system, such as
virtualization, containers, or user accounts for running processes with the
minimum set of privileges.

### Security Transparency

Similar to CAS, Security Transparency separates sandboxed
```

evolve from a client-server model to the three-layer approach. In the
client-server approach, a direct database connection is established from the
client holding the business logic usually inside a single EXE file. On the other
hand, the three-layer approach establishes an intermediate service layer
implementing business logic and database access allowing for better security,
scalability, and reusability. Instead of working directly with datasets of data,
the layer approach relies in a set of services implementing contracts and types
objects as a way to implement data transfer.

If you have a desktop application using a WCF service and you want to migrate it
to .NET Core, there are some things to consider.

The first thing is how to resolve the configuration to access the service.
Because the configuration is different on .NET Core, you'll need to make
some updates in your configuration file.

Second, you'll need to regenerate the service client with the new tools
present on Visual Studio 2019. In this step, you must consider activating the
generation of the synchronous operations to make the client compatible with your
existing code.

> If you find that after migration, there are libraries you need that aren't
> present on .NET Core you can add a reference to the [Microsoft.Windows.Compatibility](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Windows.Compatibility)
> NuGet package and see if the missing functions are there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the migration, if you find that there are libraries you need that aren't
present on .NET Core, you can add a reference to the [Microsoft.Windows.Compatibility](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Windows.Compatibility)
NuGet package and see if the missing functions are there.
```

If you're using the <xref:System.Net.WebRequest> class to perform web service calls, you may
find some differences on .NET Core. The recommendation is to use the
System.Net.Http.HttpClient instead.

## Consuming a COM Object

Currently, there's no way to add a reference to a COM object from Visual Studio

> 2019 to use with .NET Core. So, you have to follow some manual steps and modify
> the *.csproj* file for the project.

Reviewer: this could be done for vbproj too, no?

```suggestion
2019 to use with .NET Core. So, you have to manually modify the project file. 
```

Insert a `COMReference` structure inside the project file like in the following example:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
    <COMReference Include="MSHTML">
        <Guid>{3050F1C5-98B5-11CF-BB82-00AA00BDCE0B}\</Guid>
        <VersionMajor>4</VersionMajor>
        <VersionMinor>0</VersionMinor>
        <Lcid>0</Lcid>
        <WrapperTool>primary</WrapperTool>
        <Isolated>false</Isolated>
    </COMReference>
</ItemGroup>
```

## More things to consider

Several technologies available to .NET Framework libraries aren't available for
.NET Core. If your code relies on some of these technologies, consider
the alternative approaches outlined in this section.

The [Windows Compatibility Pack](../../core/porting/windows-compat-pack.md) provides access to APIs that were previously

> available only for .NET Framework. It can be used from both .NET Core as well as
> .NET Standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available only for .NET Framework. It can be used on .NET Core and .NET Standard projects.
```

example, <xref:System.AppDomain.UnhandledException?displayProperty=nameWithType>), some members do nothing (for
example, <xref:System.AppDomain.SetCachePath%2A>), and some of them throw
<xref:System.PlatformNotSupportedException> (for example, <xref:System.AppDomain.CreateDomain%2A>).

### Remoting

.NET Remoting was used for cross-AppDomain communication, which is no longer
supported. Also, Remoting requires runtime support, which is expensive to
maintain. For these reasons, .NET Remoting isn't supported on .NET Core.

For communication across processes, you should consider inter-process
communication (IPC) mechanisms as an alternative to Remoting, such as
the <xref:System.IO.Pipes?displayProperty=nameWithType> or the <xref:System.IO.MemoryMappedFiles.MemoryMappedFile> class.

Across machines, use a network-based solution as an alternative. Preferably, use
a low-overhead plaintext protocol, such as HTTP. The Kestrel web server, the
web server used by ASP.NET Core, is an option here.

### Code Access Security (CAS)

Sandboxing, which relies on the runtime or the framework to constrain which
resources a managed application or library uses or runs isn't supported on .NET
Core.

> Use security boundaries provided by the operating system, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use security boundaries that are provided by the operating system, such as
```

virtualization, containers, or user accounts for running processes with the
minimum set of privileges.

### Security Transparency

Similar to CAS, Security Transparency separates sandboxed
code from security critical code in a declarative fashion but is no longer
supported as a security boundary.

> Use security boundaries provided by the operating system, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use security boundaries that are provided by the operating system, such as
```
